Add notes for n21800 (#347)
bitcoin-core-review-club/website: _posts/2021-06-09-#21800.md

---
layout: pr
date: 2021-06-09
title: "Mempool/validation: mempool ancestor/descendant limits for packages"
pr: 21800
authors: [glozow]
components: ["mempool", "tests", "validation"]
host: glozow
status: upcoming
commit:
---

## Notes

* Apart from coinbase transactions, every Bitcoin transaction has at least one _parent_, another
  transaction whose outputs are spent as its inputs. We call the spending transaction the _child_.
_Ancestors_ include parents, their parents, and so forth. _Descendants_ include children, their
children, and so forth.

> * Each mempool policy has information on its ancestors and descendants in the mempool. This speeds

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Each mempool transaction has information on its ancestors and descendants in the mempool. This speeds
```

  up some operations (i.e. selecting which transactions to include in a block and which to evict for
low feerates) and slows down others (adding and removing transactions).

* We have ancestor/descendant limits as part of our mempool policy with the goal of constraining the
  maximum computation needed for such operations. For example, if seeing a conflicting transaction
in a block could cause us to remove a transaction with 10,000 descendants in the mempool, our

> mempool could end up a sink of computational resources (which could also be triggered intentionally

Reviewer: ```suggestion
mempool could become a sink of computational resources (which could also be triggered intentionally
```

by an attacker) rather than a useful cache of unconfirmed transactions.

> * The current ancestor/descendant limits are: no transaction can have more than 25 (or user config)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* The current default ancestor/descendant limits are: no transaction can have more than 25
```

>   or 101KvB of ancestors + descendants. The mempool member function

Reviewer: "can have more than 25 or 101KvB of ancestors + descendants" is slightly confusing. It's valid to have 15 ancestors and 15 descendants, which the sentence implies is invalid.
